From Hansel minutes.com is Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 58. Recorded live Wednesday,
April 15th, 2009. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by Tellerik rad
controls. The most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forums
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Joel Spolsky from fog Creek
software. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm down here in New York
on wall street, hanging out
with Joel Spolsky at the
fog Creek software. What are
we on 25th floor here?
Yep. World headquarters, the world
headquarters of fog Creek. Thanks
for taking the time to
chat with me and invited
me down. And we had
a lovely catered lunch and
I, I thought it was
for me. Thanks for having
me on the show. Now
we have lunch here every
day was brought in at
about noon. Yeah, I have
pretty good caterer, so that's
pretty sweet, happy. So we
were just sitting here chatting,
and then I realized that,
you know, shoot, we should
just record this. So I
figured we'd bust out the,
the, the recording equipment and,
and chat. You guys make
fog bugs and that's the
product that you're known for.
And you're coming out with
fog bugs seven. Yeah, five
weeks seven should be going
into beta on Friday for
the very first couple of
beta tests. Friday will probably
be the day that this
podcast will go up. So
that'll be today. Okay. So
congratulations on the release. Send
me if you're a fog
box user and you want
to try out the early
versions of the beta, just
Twitter me at, at Spolsky
cool. A couple of years
ago, I was reading about
how you guys wrote this
in the language that you
were. And I thought that
was really interesting cause originally
this was in VB script.
Yeah. I mean, five weeks
has been around for absolutely
ages. And in fact, the
very first, the very first
early version and it's all
been rewritten, but very, very
early versions. I wrote just
to learn VB script when
I first came out and
I think there was a
window of opportunity there. I
mean, this is before Java.
This is before anything when
VB script was just about
the only reasonable Turing complete
language you could find to
run on a web server.
And this was like either
wanna do it in C
plus plus, right? Yeah. So,
so you did this in
VB script. So this was
ASP classic ASP classic ASP.
Yeah. All one file master
dot ASP. Now we had
a lot of little files
that were all included in
one big file. Yeah. But
you want it to be
cross platform. That was really
important. The first, the first
problem that we had, I
mean, we, we, we had
this big code base and
VB script that we had
a modified, it was very
clean. It was actually a
astonishingly clean, elegant well-structured code.
That was very, very functional.
And the first problem that
we had was a, is
asking to be able to
run this on Unix, the
only solution for running VB
script on Unix with something
called chili soft, which was
a thousand dollars per server.
And that it was kind
of expensive and we couldn't
get anybody to go for
that. And so what we
did is we took a
summer intern and said here,
write a VB script to
PHB compiler. So this is
a classic compiler. It's not
a translator. It had Alexa
in a parser and a
code generator. And the code
generator generated PHB, given VB
script. Why not? Why is
that not a translator? Well,
I get into debates debate
all the time. No, I
know a compiler and a
translator are basically the same
word. A compiler people sometimes
think of a compiler as
being the thing which generates
machine language or something, but
that's actually not true. Very
rarely does it compilers generally
generate some other language. It
may or may not be
human readable. The old compilers
generated assembler, which was human
readable, the first C plus
plus compilers generated C just
cause it was easier. And
then they had all the
existing C compilers available to
get into assembler. There was
no reason to take that
extra step. And we took
that inspiration of the early
C plus plus compilers, which
were called seafront the, the
first ATM T C plus
plus compiler. We took that
inspiration to say, well, let's
make a compiler. And instead
of going to the trouble
of generating something, which can
be run at the machine
level, let's just generate PHB
And you didn't see, she
didn't do this as a
translator in the sense of
it wasn't as simple search
and replace operation, right. This
thing that's not in the
syntax tree and admitted another
Syntech story. Exactly. It basically
did true Lexington parsing as
opposed to just some fancy
regular expressions. Okay, great. So
then at this point, they're
putting up PHP for the
Unix version and they're using
the standard VB script on,
and this goes on for
a number of versions and
people are happy and everyone
is thrilled. Be the PHP.
I mean, PHB is not
a good language, Scott. I
hate to say it really,
Oh my God, the world
is, I want to explode
because it isn't, isn't the
Facebook, the operating system for
the internet running entirely empty.
Maybe it is possible to,
you know, what good programmers
can write good clean code
in any language, no matter
how bad it is. But
there, there were just difficulties
that the PHP version always
had issues. New versions of
PHP would come out with
incompatibilities. There were just sort
of PHB never had good
Unicode support. It was never,
they never really solved that
problem correctly, all kinds of
issues around the way that
references worked, worked and, and
passing a reference into a
function. And just all that
kind of stuff was obviously
invented by somebody that didn't
have a lot of computer
language experience. And so there's
some fundamental mistakes Pre PHP
five, and you're not enjoying
yourself at this point, Enjoying
ourselves. Okay. And to this
day we don't enjoy our,
our PHB port. And so
it still exists though. Well,
I mean five bucks six,
which is like our current
shipping version is PHB yet.
So it's yeah. It's at
the point where we're still
releasing patches every once in
a while. Okay. And is
that going To stop now?
Is that dead? Well, that's,
that's, that's dead for the
public six train of thought.
Well, we do with five
books, seven is almost a
complete rewrite of the compiler
into a thing called Sabi
wasabi. The current version of
wasabi takes, eh, a version
of VB script, which has
added a lot of features.
We've added a lot of
features to the input language,
the language that we compile.
And just to give you
an idea of some of
those features, they're all these
basically modern programming language features
that are just starting to
show up in C sharp.
So some of them are
like convenience features like the
ability to have a string
that spans multiple lines, you
know, like a really long
string using the triple quotes.
Some of them are, and
that's a simple kind of
convenience feature. Some of them
are necessary because we now
generate a real CLR. So
we're, we're, we're now a
dotnet language was hobby as
a.net language effectively. And So
to be clear, you emit
assemblies that contain intermediate language
and no one needs to
know that. Right. And it
just works. And it runs
inside of, And it runs
inside of CLR either on
either regular IAS or the
Unix version, we'll run a
motto. And, and then we
have ax, which is the
first class that in that
language we can link with
C-sharp. Oh, all right. So
you can, so you can
call other people's things. You're
really our first class. Yep.
And do you have references
to other assemblies that are
not written in wasabi? Yes.
Five Oh seven. Well, if
I was seven, has a
plugin architecture, you can write
plugins in any of that,
in that language. So let
me kind of take a
small tangent. I want to
come back to this, but,
but my first kind of
like visceral reaction is, but
you make bug tracking software.
Why, why is there the
6 billion people on the planet?
Some number of them are
programmers. None of them had
a solution for you. So
your bug tracking software company
wrote a new line. Yeah.
Well, I wouldn't say it's
a new language. I mean,
we had, we have a
specific set of constraints that
not a lot of other
people do. Number one, constraint
was existing legacy code base
that worked, that was debugged
in VB script. And VB
script is a bad language
to program and it's missing
a bunch of stuff, but
we added it. The truth
is I think a lot
of the, the fundamental reaction,
I mean, there was a
lot of reaction against wasabi
saying, you know, WTF is
why are you guys running
a compiler? And I think
that fundamentally comes from the
fact that a lot of
programmers, especially a lot of,
well, I won't use nasty
terminology. Let's just say a
lot of beginning to intermediate
programmers might think that there's
something magical about a compiler,
that this is too hard
for them to do that.
A compiler is like an
operating system. It's for the
gods of Redmond, Washington to
create, and maybe like a
couple of geniuses that work
for Google, but this is
not code that I could
ever write because it's something
magical and incredible and mysterious.
And it's like creating Adams.
You need a sub. I
remember my, I think Mike
compiler class was a 300
level class. Yeah, yeah. 300
levels. And so anybody that's
learned how to program Java
at the Java in 21
course at the airport Marriott
or who, you know, basically
learned how to program by
downloading a sort of JavaScripts
from websites in the early.com.
Boom. I think that a
compiler is something that they
would have no idea how,
how to ever go about
doing that. But anybody that's
taken the compiler clot course
knows that it's a one
semester project. And so you
had an intern do it.
Yeah. We had a, we
had an intern do it
later. We had a full
time employee who worked on
it. But I mean, it's,
we know that it's a
matter of a couple of
weeks. So then, so you're
answering my kind of like
when you're building a compiler
with, well, it's just not
that big of a deal
to build a compiler. Correct.
We had a great code
base of input. Your input
was really a domain specific
language at this point. I
mean, you call it a
Sabi, but it's fog bugs,
VB script, essentially. And it
was, you had a large
existing DSL. Why not exploit
that? It was easier for
us to do that than
to port. I mean, we
just sat there and made
a decision. Do we write
this compiler? Or do we
port all our existing code,
right. VB under MVC, right.
Let's say, yeah. And this
was, we just thought this
was an easier way to
do it and would leave
us in control in a
way, in a way that,
and I mean, we have
wasabi is a better language
than either VB or C
sharp for our needs, both
in the sense that it
is guaranteed to correctly compile
our existing code, but also
in the sense that we've
added features to it, that
that, like, for example, type
in forensic complete type inference
system that figures out the
type of everything with that
are having to declare them.
And it works. It's better
than the type of inconsistency
sharp because you can use,
it works across parameters and
all that kind of stuff.
It's the kind of thing
that a modern programming language
has coming out of academia
by modern. I mean, 1990
year old Haskell ML, I'll
have this type of inference.
Devil's advocate a little bit.
Yeah. Could one read into
what you're saying, and let's
say that someone's listening to
this podcast and in their
mind, yeah. Maybe there's two
or three people who are
listening and they're thinking, wow,
supposedly it's like, blah, blah,
blah. I'm smarter than Andrews
now. Blah, blah, blah. Modern.
Definitely. It's in Jacob, the
people that worked on the
compiler, but you know what
I'm saying? I'm not Someone
could be hearing the same.
Wow. What arrogance to go
and write a new language.
Yeah. Do you look at
it that way? No. No.
And why don't you Don't
forget. I don't think anybody
else in the world you
use wasabi, otherwise we would
give them services Exactly what
I was my next question
was and why am I
not writing? Sorry. Unless you
have a body of code
and VB script that happens
to use the same subs
sub set of VB script
as fog bugs does. This
is probably not the ideal
language for you. It's not
a great, But he does
then I suppose they'll call
you and you'll license it
to them or If they
want, but what they'll discover
People out there with a
lot of code in VB
script class who would very
much thought about by calling
ado and doing random? Well,
that's the thing We use.
For example, we use probably
5% of what ADL makes
available. And if somebody uses
a different 5%, we've never
bothered implementing that. So there's
a bunch of stuff where
like, like I said, there's
only one program that we
have to go by with
wasabi and that makes it
a very specific kind of
compiler and to actually make
it something, Nikki, take any
arbitrary VB script that anybody's
right. See, that's really interesting
when you said that you
really, you wrote a compiler
that compiles, not just to
propose one language, but it
really compiles to one program.
So if they're interested in
compiling fog books, and this
is the language for them.
Exactly. And in fact, I'll
get a free copy of
the compiler when they buy
fog bugs, it'll be there
and the accessories directory so
they can compile fog bugs.
Yeah. We ship, We ship
with source. Now, when someone
creates a language, even as
a language that compiles one
program, there's usually things like
debugs debugging and debug stacks.
Yeah. Visual studio, really, it
figures out everything for you.
And you're able to get
the stack. The stack trace
looks like it points to
the right line and says,
yeah, everything's cool. You know,
I don't want to say
it's like the world's best
debugging environment, but it's definitely
better than print ft. Debugging.
Yeah. So it's not, you're
not, you're not doing the
old style. Got here. Yeah.
Go here. Do it again.
Now there are, there are
a couple of cases. The
truth is that the dev
team here, if they could,
would always write new code
would always rather write new
code in C sharp. And
so w five bucks, seven
has a big plug in
architecture. The plugin architecture can
take plugins written in any
language. And so we tend
to write, if we can
write a new feature by
making it a plugin, we
will do that. And then
we'll be able to use
C-sharp, we'll get all the
benefits of all those of
all the, of all those
tools. I think somebody has
written a couple of examples
in iron Python to actually
a plugin setup. So before
you were, you had dot
ASP X, can we get
dot ASP files? Yeah. And
I know how that entry
point into IIS works and
how you get ahold of
the request, obviously the response
and all that kind of
stuff. Yep. Now, are you
an HTP handler? I mean,
who, how do you get
into, what's your relationship with
AIS? I'm pretty sure don't
know. Okay. Sorry. So there's
some, but you're, you're a
full class done at language.
So the USB in there
with, Yeah, I think it's
still like the kind of
one entry point, like where
you just have one big,
gigantic monolithic blob of code
that runs in a bunch
of classes. I think it's
kind of the same. Now,
when did punk books start?
We've been shipping five books
since November, 2000, 2000. Wow. So
you're yeah. You're with the
10 years thing coming up
pretty soon here. And when
did you start Joel on
software doc? A little bit
before that. 1999. I think
I had an, an article
and mostly in the summer
of 2000 before I started
fuckery. And when did people
find value in it? Never.
Exactly. Yeah. I was, I
was giving a talk at
a, at discovery just a
little while ago here. And
as one of, one of
the people said, well, why
bother writing a blog? And
I said, well, you know,
cause we can go back
and Google myself later. And
you know, I just went
back to September of 2002
when I started it and
looked at the first post
while we were there on,
on stage. And it said,
well, it looks like I'm
blogging. We'll see how long
this lasts. That's everybody's first
and most people's last post.
Yeah. You know, a lot
of people blog. It's interesting
to see some of the,
some of the classic bloggers,
the, the shape, their blogs
take, make it clear why
they're blogging. So for example,
Dave Winer, every once in
a while, we'll have a
post where he says, it's
not gonna be interesting to
anybody I'm just posting this
so that I can find
it in the future. And
at some point there was
a point in, I would
say 2001, 2002, when Google
got so good at finding
things that everybody started to
learn that stuff on the
internet could be found. Whereas
they used to have an
assumption that it could. So
for example, until then everybody
had 4,000 bookmarks because they
wanted to be able to
get back to the Microsoft
homepage again, because they didn't
know how and they had
to make a bookmark to
the Microsoft homepage so they
could find it on their
own site. Yeah. Everyone's on
site became their homepage, right.
Their bookmarks, which was actually
the bookmarks in net and
the original version of Netscape,
the bookmarks was an HTML
file. Actually, you could make
that your homepage. And, but
as soon as people discovered
that you could trust Google
to find things for you.
Again, they started putting stuff
out there simply so that
they could find it again.
And so a lot of
programmers, that's what their blogs
are. Just a lot of,
kind of nominate any dis
again. And there's definitely posts
like that, of that form
on, on, and software. There
are other, there are other
kinds of bloggers I think
are like Raymond Chan is a
great example was one of,
besides the fact that, you
know, he just has brilliant
and interesting things to say.
And almost everything he posts
is sort of fun and
interesting, but that his titles
are almost always questions. And
his post is an answer
to that question. And you
can tell that from the
beginning, he was conscientious that
what he wanted to do
is be the canonical answer
to a question for a
particular narrow niche question about
the wind 32 API that
he happened to know the
answer to, You know, in
the, in the, in the
talk I gave on social
networking today, I said that,
you know, you'll start blogging.
And you know, I said,
everyone here should have a
blog. And some people said,
yes, I will. I will.
I dedicate myself. I will
get a blog. And I
said, all right, well, you're
going to blog in a
vacuum for a year and
no one is going to
read anything that you've ever
written and no one's going
to care. And you're going
to feel bad about that.
And then one day you'll
write a post that will
be the post you become
known for. Yeah. And I
asked, I asked John Robbins who
was there. I said, you,
John, what is the post
that everyone? And he says
how to install Vista 64
on Mac book pro. Yep.
Right. What Scott, what was
yours? Exactly. Direct question and
direct answer and not in
any way what he was
interested in blogging about. Yeah.
But he just happened to
answer a question. Then his
post became the kind of
canonical answer to something. Right.
And for me it was
a tools list that I
wrote. It was Scott's ultimate
tools list. Oh, cool, cool.
And that just became like
the thing. So everyone, every
year everyone wants, and actually
now this is the first
year that I've skipped a
year. I didn't do it
last year. And now I'm
getting complaints. Right. Where's this
year's list. Yeah. Mine is
probably that article about Unicode.
Although I had a readers
before that, but still probably
the number one post on
my site in terms of
getting traffic, is that little
tutorial about Unicode that yeah.
And it had kind of
a, what we would call
today kind of a classic
link title because it was
so declarative what every developer
absolutely needs to know at
the absolute minimum, no excuses.
Right. I mean, it almost
does the title just calls
you an idiot and begs
you to read it. And
it was a great, it
was a great post. And
that is to this day,
that kind of the canonical.
Right. Were you worried that
it wasn't correct? Did it,
were there any ideas in
it? I was pretty sure
it was reasonably correct. Yeah.
What I was worried about
at the time I was
writing it is that there
were 9 million other issues in
internationalization. And the people that
tend to be concerned about
internationalization, nationalization, localization, et cetera,
all tend to be monumentally
nitpicky. And I thought that
I would start to get
long letters about how I
hadn't said anything about how,
when you translate the German,
all the dialogue boxes you'll
have to, all the words
will get longer and you'll
need to leave space for,
and I didn't say anything
about that. And I didn't
talk about month date or,
Well, it wasn't the, it
wasn't supposed to be, None
of it was about character
sets. Exactly. And it was
the thing that was what
was interesting is that so
many people that to this
day don't know that don't
know that stuff. And I
read a book by Michael
Caplin who now works at
Microsoft Kaplan. Yeah. Great guy.
He has a really great
blog called sorting it out.
Right. Also a lot of
stuff about character, character sets
and localization, especially around character
sets. And he wrote a
book called international. I think
it was called internationalization with
visual basic that I actually
use to try to get
an early version of city
desk working with some reasonable
unit level support. And that's
how I kind of learned
this stuff because he just
finally, you know, he explained
it in a way that
made sense to me because
for the first time nobody
had ever tried to do
that before. And was that
when that post happened, was
that when kind of what
Chris cells called called obscurely
famous began now? I think
Sort of, I mean, there
are a lot of other
posts that I've written on
doll and software that have
gotten linked to, by the
people that reach on software.
And I, there, there was
nothing special about that post
in terms of the traffic
that generated the, probably the
turning point, the point that
generate the, the post that
generated the most traffic was
how Microsoft lost the API
war, which got, you know,
a monumental amount of attention,
including a lot of internal
attention at Microsoft. And, you
know, I had been told
that it was, you know,
I think that was the
Longhorn reset, reset just a
couple of years ago. Yeah.
Was basically in some, in
some way inspired by some
of the things that I
mentioned there. And, you know,
I don't want to take
credit for that that's way.
That's called part. But there
were conversations inside Microsoft that
were instigated by this, how
Microsoft lost the API work.
Do you know how to
make the possible out of
the impossible? Well, the dotnet
ninjas at Telerik do they
just released a huge pack
of web controls, all built
on top of ASP at
Ajax, that'll help you build
impossibly fast and interactive applications
in no time at all.
They've made the impossible possible
in desktop development. If you
think you can't have a
carousel component and wind forms,
well you can. They're windows
forms, suite features a super
powerful grid view control on
32 other crazy desktop components
that will give you a
dazzling WPF like features, but
in wind forms, they do
the same thing in reporting
solutions with a new design
surface, like nothing else looks
just like graph paper, cause
you advanced page layout capabilities
makes it feel more like
a graphic design software than
a reporting solution. Go check
them out@telerik.com and be a
dotnet Ninja. And thanks for
listening. It's amazing how bloggers
can affect things inside of
Microsoft. A really great blogger
that I really enjoy, but
I don't think enough people
read is a guy named
long Jang is a guy
out of Australia and he
has a blog called I
started something and it is
just such a thoughtfully written
blog. And he doesn't just
complain, which a lot of
bloggers do, but he also
takes action. Right? So for
example, he doesn't like UI
inconsistency. So rather than complaining
about it and he actually
made a website, that's a
community site that does nothing
but collect screenshots of dialogues
with inconsistencies so that people
can document and then upload
or download them. It's the
stack. This was done a
couple of years ago, but
it's kind of the stack
overflow for one thing. UI
inconsistency. Yep. Yep. He's got
one for windows seven. Cool.
One for Vista and one
for Macko ESCA was really
bad. Yeah. And that took
a lot of attention internally.
Microsoft people were like, Oh
wow, look at this. A
screenshot, nice bug report. I
mean, it was, you know,
bug tracking for that kind
of stuff. I think that
I don't enjoy reading complainer
blogs as much as I
know, Because if you're just,
if you're just complaining, then
it's like, yeah, I know
cell phone companies suck. I'm
sorry. You had a bad
experience with a cell phone
company, but am I really
going to continue to read
these until the end of
time? And it's every, and
if everybody's going to have
a blog, are we all
gonna write the same post
about the bad thing that
at and T did you,
you know, at T at
some point that's not necessarily
the most productive, so how
much are you blogging once
a week or no, not
even. I, I hardly ever
have time to blog anymore.
And I, and I've also
kind of run out of
things to say, because a
lot of what I was
writing in the early days
was, you know, accumulated knowledge
of a couple of decades
of working in software. And
once I had gotten the
main points out that I
wanted to get out, you
know, I don't, I'm not
gonna, I guess I have
a, I try to maintain
the same level of filter
that I always had if
a post is not, you
know, if it's not, you
know, relatively novel. And I
feel like I have a
kind of an interesting thing
on it and people seem
to be missing the point.
Yeah, I won't read it.
And one thing that has
happened is there's so many
other good bloggers out there
now that I don't have
to be the one to
write those posts Terminating though.
I must say like Jeff
Atwood has a, there's a
cadence to his blogging just
once a day. And even
though sometimes I'll go, come
on, Jeff. It was Tuesday.
That was a crappy post.
You just threw the, you
just threw that one away.
It's just that every, every
weekday there's a good post
from, from Jeff. Now, a
number of years ago, he
posted that you had jumped
the shark. That's probably still
one of the top Google
hits. Yeah. For those of
us who are not necessarily
from the U S or
listening to this podcast or
who may not speak English
to jump, the shark is
actually a reference to an
episode of the American sitcom.
Happy days when somewhere in
the fourth or fifth season,
they decided to set up
a very silly spectacle where
the Fonz would jump a
shark on a pair of
jet skis. Right. And it
was a ridiculous, silly stunt
To try to get viewers
and in a fading fading
In a fading television show.
So then to jump, the
shark became the Mark of
when something that you once
loved, has finally peaked and
is now heading downhill. Right?
So Jeff said in a
very public post dedicated to
Joel Spolsky, it's jumped the
shark. We once loved him.
And now it's over. Let
us all watch the him
go down in flames. Okay.
Now you guys are like
hanging out all in together.
You got a podcast you're
going to record in an
hour and you're in a
business venture. How do, if
I insult you in a,
can we hang out more
Blog, mean thing, hang out
with you. Whether or not
you, but, but go ahead.
How in the world did
that turn into a process?
Well, actually I didn't know
about that post. I had
already signed on when she
was assaulted. Now I'm not
really insulted by, by like
thoughtless meaningless nonsense. Like now
You didn't know about that.
It wasn't like on your
radar. I didn't know about,
I didn't know about that.
I thought that Jeff, Jeff
was a, a good blogger
and an important blogger and
self that's kind of more
important to me than the
fact that he had been
to insult me once He
did the same thing to
Paul Graham and now they hang
out. Oh really? Yeah. Yeah.
She said, you look, go
search for his blog for
Paul Graham. And he went on
about how he sucks and
now Jeff and Paul talk.
So I think it's a
great way to meet famous
people. I think it's kind
of actually important if you're
a blogger, I might want
to tell people is that
as an early blogger, you're
one way which you can
gain fame is by trying
to take down people who
were more mighty than you.
So I can write it.
I can write a post
saying how Microsoft lost the
API war because Microsoft is
mightier than I am. And
you know, I can do
that. On the other hand,
now that I've got fog
Creek software, we have 25
employees. We're making millions of
dollars a year where highly
profitable. We have this big,
beautiful office. And I have
a blog that's read by
a million people for me
to attack some blogger say
that only has 200,000 readers
instead of a million readers
would be cool. It would
just be, and w whatever,
whatever point you are in
the scale, it's, you're, you're
allowed to poke at the
people that are above you,
but it's not very nice.
It's just not polite, really
to attack the people that
are weaker and smaller than
you. It's just, it's just
not basic manners. I think
in some, in some, in
some extent. And so, whereas
I used to get a
lot of joy out of
writing a blog, post, making
fun of some startup with
a ridiculously idiotic idea, because
nobody knew who I was
and it was ridiculous. And
now I sort of feel
bad. I'm not going to
attack two guys working on
a little Y Combinator startup
that have a ridiculous, stupid
idea. They don't, they don't
need to be attacked by
me. And it's just not,
that's just like beating up
little kids in the playground.
So speaking of two, two
guys working on a ridiculous
with a stupid idea. Yeah.
Stack overflow. Yeah, exactly. Poor
guys. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So,
so you and Jeff were
partners in this stack overflow
thing, and it's, it's, it's
like a rocket. I went
on compete.com and the traffic
is looking great. Yeah. Their
numbers are terrible. We don't,
we don't hesitate to publicize
their numbers, but they're substantially
higher than what compete.com shows
by orders of magnitude. Oh,
really? Yeah. So compete is
wrong. I said like 14 million
page views last month. Yeah.
That's our number. That's not
compete number. Oh, I thought
competes it. Oh, okay. Yeah.
I don't know how there's
all these different things like
compete Netcraft and Alexa, everybody
wants to know what the
hot numbers are. They're all
wrong. And they're all using
internet Explorer, plugins that no
programmer has. So that explains
why they would be so
low. Right? The current numbers
are about, let's see, 14 million
pages a month, 6 million visitors
a month, 3 million unique visitors
a month. That's pretty much
So 3 million unique individual human
beings. Well, you know, the
way you Nix is defined
is we try to set
a cookie. And if the
cookie is still there, we
continue to be, you do
some people clear their cookies.
That's a lot of people.
Yeah. And the thing, I
think that is a lot,
especially The best estimates I've
heard of how many programmers
there are, are two to
4 million. So Two to 4 million
programmers. No nonsense. I think
you're insane. No, I would
totally disagree with that. That's
a really interesting question. We
should have some audience participation.
If we had an audience,
there is a, there are
probably 3 million C sharp developers
alone in the world. I
know for, like, for example,
in Norway, how many, how
many programmers, what percentage Programmers
do you think on the
United States? Cause there is us
department of labor. It's a
good question. Let me, let
me put it this way
in Norway. There's like what?
How many people in Norway?
6 million people. Yeah. Someone told
me that in Norway, there
are 30 thousand.net developers. Okay.
Well we can extrapolate. We
can extract from Norway. We
very smart in Norway. Here's
where I get that. The
department of labor. Okay. Can
I Google this now? Or
is it Okay? He's going
to Google now and I'm
going to talk while he
Googled. So he's going over
to Google now. He's not
using stack overflow to answer
this question. You know what?
It will, it'll come up
with a stack overflow. We'll
be like, Oh, really? He's
going to be in the
first page. So yeah. Let
me think. He says 3 million
programmers in the entire world.
I think it's more like
30 or 40 million. That's a
lot. How many, let's say
just type, how many programmers
in the world are there
in the world. This is
actually going to be kind
of illustrative. So Google answers.
How many programmers are there?
Yeah. Google answers. That's okay.
No answer. Okay. Okay. What's
the next one. How many
programs? And this is like,
there are 6 billion people in
the world, Right? And this
was just about the same
as trying to figure out
how many aliens there are
in the universe, because you
just have to go in
and guess how many grains?
Here's the stack overflow it
way into. So stack overflow
shows up and what do
we say? Well, they're also,
this guy is guessing 12 million,
but he's saying 1% of
people with computers or something,
that's kind ridiculous. Well, that's
interesting Though. 1% of people
with computers. Well, here's the
U S government 3.1 Americans
3.1 million Americans. Okay, here
we go. So that's a
real statistic now, the quick,
now the next thing, which
we might have a statistic.
Oh, well what percentage of
Microsoft developer product tools? Revenue
comes from outside the United States.
Yeah, I'm betting. It's about
50. 50. Okay. Right. So
there's 300 million, say 600 million Americans,
kids counting old people and
babies. 3 million, 3 million of them.
No. 300 million Americans. Yeah. There
was no babies or old
people that program. And with
3 million of them, 1% of
Americans are programmers. Okay. So
then you figure, you can't
say 6 billion because not everyone's
doing this kind of stuff.
There's no way that 1%.
So 1.1% of computer users
and say, now I want
to just say it's like
60 million people. No, I don't
believe so, because I think
that America has more programmers
per capita then. Yeah. Oh,
I bet you, if you
took the G what you
should do is take the
G 20. Okay. Right. 1%
of the total population of
the . I I'm going
to go buy almost all
software companies tend to report
that 40 to 50% of
their sales in the United States.
And these are, and everyone
else's outside. Yeah. Okay. So
basically that times two. Yeah.
That's why I think it's
that time. 6 million programmers. I
don't know. And you're getting
a chunk of them half.
Yeah. I think that's a
little, Yeah, it's probably higher.
Well, we'll see how high
it goes When you have,
when you have a lot,
you know, if you double
talk to me in four
months and if you have
them all, then that'd be
great. I think really the
way that, you know, when
I mean, you, I mean,
anyone knows is when you
can just mention it to
anybody and think, Oh yeah,
yeah, right. Yeah. I mean,
I mentioned stack overflow today
and about, I don't know,
30, 40% of the audience
raised their hands. That's it?
That's about what we're seeing.
That's what we, that's what
happened in the mix. Right.
Do you mean that they're
active users, but it means
it's starting to get in
their consciousness. They're starting to
use it. They're starting to
think about it. Most people
We'll discover it. Cause they'll,
it'll start to come up
in Google search results and
they won't even look at
the name of the site
until about the third time
they've seen stack overflow and
they start realizing they're getting
better answers from stack overflow.
And so they're doing the
Google thing of reaching over
three other sites to pick
the fourth result, See the
stack overflow site. Yeah. They
want that one. Yeah. And
actually Google detects that and
starts to it. Doesn't really,
yeah. They start to twiddle,
they'll twiddle what's on the
homepage based on if they
discover people reaching over another
site. Oh yeah. And I've
noticed that I get different
results in Google, whether I'm
signed in or not. Right.
So they know what I
prefer to look at. All
right. Well that was a
big ego trip right there.
But the point is that
you're starting to answer questions
that people want to get
answered. And it's kind of
showing that the full tech
search indexing is just not
the best way to get
the answer to a question
There. Yeah. There there's, there's
a, there's a general weakness
with search engines that comes
around in these sort of
Q and a experts, answering
questions, kind of areas. The
reason that they've been pretty
weak, this sort of my
guest is, well, there's a
couple of things, but the,
the main point is that
these programming questions are very,
very narrow. So a question
on stack overflow, that's popular.
We'll have a thousand people
look at it. Okay. So
it's two nights. It was
a little bit of a
low. Yeah. I mean, I
expect, I asked a question
and I figured just in
like peripheral kind of like
collateral people looking at it,
I get a couple of
thousand, but it's really just
a few hundred for very,
very narrow, narrow questions And
you'll get your answers and
they'll be voted up and
the right ones will be
voted up and you'll get
a lot of people to
get the right people. An
aggregate number is way smaller
than you would think, given
the quality of the ads.
Right. So now how many
people are going to go
make a link to your
stack overflow question one, right.
And it'll be from Twitter.
So it'll be going through
one or two. Right. So
shortening is a huge problem.
So PageRank does not work
for these such narrow topics.
Authority doesn't work because authority
is like, well, is the
site authoritative, Just to make
sure that the audience understands
when he's saying page rank
does not work, is that
Google is fundamentally built on
the idea that people will
like your stuff and link
to it. Right. And what
he's saying is that an
answer, a question is asked,
how do I get it
out of the extra well,
serializer. Yeah. And the answer
comes down, you do it
like this, and it's correct.
And it's perfect, but no
one ever links to it.
Right. So Google has no
way of knowing that that's
the best answer. Exactly. Right.
And so this is the
first problem. The second problem
is, think of all the
different ways you could phrase
that question. And so whatever
incoming traffic there might be
from the search engines to
this question gets fragmented across
a much larger spectrum of
possible ways of phrasing this
question. Interesting. That that issue
of phrasing the question is
where I think, I mean,
and I think everyone in
the audience here will understand
the audience. We were talking,
I'm gesturing towards the empty
cafeteria to my right. Everyone
in the audience, that guy
over there who's getting tea
knows that they are probably
just by virtue of the
fact that they're listening to
this show, the guy who
can Google best or gal
who can Google best. And
we all have that situation
where a friend says, man,
I've Googled my brains out.
I've been Googling for an
hour. Help me get the
answer to this. And I
look for it and it's
like the first hit. And
then, Oh, you're the Google
master baby. You're the Google
master. No. I just know
how to phrase things sufficiently
vague. Yup. That Google, you
know, I get like if
I pick the right two
words, Right. Two keywords that
you know are going to
be in the answer, That's
a huge problem. Yep. Cause
I don't know what is
causing me to answer the
right thing. They're entire classes
of things that cause problems
for a Google on searching
for specifically programmer related questions.
One, one great one is
let's say that you're searching
for a question related to
VB six, as opposed to
vb.net, just as a typical
example and you're screwed, you're
screwed and anything new. And
you're screwed for example, a
big common complaint today these
days. And it'll eventually it'll
it'll work itself out of
the system. But right now,
if you search for asp.net,
MVC things on Google, that
you wind up getting a
lot of stuff about early
betas that are either no
longer true or no, aren't
correct. It's not changed. And
We were trying to put
a lot of really good
information out really fast to
make people feel good. And
now they're finding all sorts
of code that doesn't compile.
Right? Right. And not only
that, that stuff, because there's
no page rank because Google
can't look at Patrion cause
there's not enough people linking
to these things. It looks
at authority and it uses
other measures of authority. Like
the older, the link, the
more authoritative it is because
Google will generally prefer a
LinkedIn hangs around for a
long time, rather than something
a femoral. And that means
that, that it is actually
a constitutional problem of search
engines. That if something is
wrong is out there, it's
going to continue to, to
be pointed to by the
search engines. So that's why
we knew that stack over.
When we designed stack overflow,
we said, first of all,
it has to have voting
because we got to have
10 experts on the subject,
get together and just decide
what's important. And that's that
they have to use that
gesture rather than the gesture
of making a writer from
their blog. Because that's the
only way to This helps
you prioritize your search. But
how do you tell Google?
Here's the thing when we
have we're prioritizing the answer.
So as long as Google
finds us as the question
and stack overflow has authority
because programmers around the world
linked to it and their
blogs to, to this top
level domain, right then at
least stack overflow will have
a high page rank. And
our version of the question
will be bumped above. Let's
say an old use net
version of that question. And
if that happens, once you
get into our question, now
there are two reasons why
our answers are going to
be better. One is that
the answers are constantly going
to be resorted and voted
upon. So whatever is the
best answer will be at
the top. You don't have
to search through all the
answers, right? You at least
have a place to look
to find what the best
answer is that the consensus
of the people that have
looked at this narrow questions,
a hundred people that have
participated in this narrow question.
And secondly, it's a Wiki.
So if it is wrong
or if it is out
of date or it is
obsolete, somebody is going to
hit the edit button and
fix it, make that code
compile. And so these old
established stack overflow topics that
have lots of Google karma
can continue to come up.
Number one in the search
results. And yet they can
change as the technology changes.
One great example is, think
about how many times you've
seen an answer to a
question that has come up,
you know, when you're searching
for a programming question and
it's got, you know, across
site scripting vulnerability in the
answer, or it's a gigantic
SQL injection problem, it should
not exist. It's going to
cause somebody to cut and
paste code. That's going to
be a security problem. Right?
You can't do anything about
it. There's no edit edit
button on most of these
sites. And on stack overflow,
you'd hit the edit button
and say warning, Cossacks, scripting
butter, a felony, or do
not actually run this code
because you're just concatenating together
a SQL string with, I
think probably about half of
the books that have been
published about web programming, concatenate
strings, that they then pass
off to a SQL server
and you know, strings coming
from there. Yeah. I actually
had a, I had a
buddy of mine is working
on some analysis software that
looks at logs and he
found that there was a
botnet that keeps attacking my
blog. And it's like, it's
like the same three or
400 IP addresses doing the
same three or four things
where they try to drop
tables right off the end
of My blog. Just for
fun. Yeah. Just for fun.
So this thing about, about
where Google is grabbing and
where any, I guess I
would say Google, I mean
any generic search engine is,
is getting their data. PageRank
doesn't work anymore with Twitter.
I am surprised how often
I see stack overflow appear
in a Google result. I
cannot remember the time when
I've ever seen a result
from Twitter show up as
a result of a search.
Even if I was You
definitely can't, that's the reason
why that's the, that's the
only model for Twitter, which
is that Twitter permalinks don't
show up in Google results,
Twitter, unless somebody links to
it from a blog, in
which case it might, but,
but Google can't just search
all Twitter because they don't
have the feed, which is
why they're called the firehose
version of Twitter, which only
is only available to search.twitter.com
or maybe one or two
other. And then of course
we have the Earl shortening
issue, which is if you're
on Twitter, you're trying to
fit everything into a tiny,
tiny, you know, you only
have 140 characters. So then
you're going to go and
use like I S dot
G D. Yep. And then
you, then again, page rank
falls down, right? This seems
like a huge, huge problem.
And I don't know if
Twitter being bought by Google
is just the start of
that. I would assume that
there is somebody at Google
working on it. I mean,
that's not a hard problem
for them, But they've mainly
with the URL shortening means
that they're going to have
to find, you know, the
API is for expansion and
for all of these different
things, follow them around. Yeah.
Not so hard. You don't
think it's a big deal?
No, I'm sure they probably
have already done half of
this. Yeah. I don't have
a lot of confidence at
Google is just, yeah, they
got a smart PhD working
on it. You don't have
a smart PhD. You need
a table. And the first
column is the name of
the, is the domain name
of the URL shortening shortening
service. And the second column
is sorry, three columns. The
second column tells you how
to construct a query to
the URL shortening service. The
third column is a reg
X that tells you how
to get the correct URL
out of the results Or
you just, or you just
visit it and see what
happens. Yeah. Yeah. This is
not, this is the kind
of thing that they will.
I mean, they have to
keep up with all kinds
of things all the time.
We'll slow down a little
bit on the blog search
stuff because there's a lot
of, I mean, I'm finding
that I used to just
search Google and now I
search Google search.twitter.com and stack
overflow when I want the
answer to something. And I'm
also finding that more because
Twitter prioritizes results in terms
of time. Right. I literally
can't find anything that's older
than a couple of days.
And I think Twitter, I
don't even know if that
stuff, People are using it
as a link sharing service
though. Check this out link.
Yeah. It's interesting. The whole
kind of check this out,
but link. Yeah. That's how
email at first it was
like email, right? Hey, check
this out link. And then
it became people who do
throw away blog posts. Right,
right here, check this out.
And then no one uses
delicious. I threw to the
stats and delicious.com, which is
a fantastic social bookmarking service
virtually. No one uses it.
It's very, very small, only
like the most, whatever most
alpha used delicious. And it's
such an extraordinary service. So
then now people are using,
I know there's a, there's
a Microsoft blogger named Elijah
Manor. And all he does
is Twitter links like every
20 minutes or so, Hey,
check this out link. And
then hashtag hashtag hashtag, which
is great if I want
a fire hose of links,
but I want to know
where those, I mean, I
want to find them later
and I can't, cause he'll
give me a keyword or
a short URL. And it
was just a, it's like
a Firefly. I, you know,
it burst and it was
gone. Yeah. You have to.
I actually, I mean, Twitter
gives me a headache. Sometimes
I feel like going to
Twitter is seeing and seeing
like a list of tweets
that people have made, which
are like, check this out
or check that. And sometimes
you can't understand what's going
on and you have to
figure out who is, and
then you have the problem
and you have to reassemble
the conversation yourself. I can't
stand it. Why you make
me stop it, stop it.
You know what? It's just
the downfall of discourse. There's
just a bunch of people's
downfall of discourse. I shall
tweet that right now. My
wife is getting into that
kind of stuff. You can
say, you can put something
on Twitter and you don't
ha you don't even have
room to justify what you
said. It's not even possible
to make an argument on
Twitter. All you can do
is say your final conclusion,
your opinion on the thing
which has happened. That's so
funny because people are arguing
on Twitter, they're using it
like it's IRC with permanent
link, but they're not. But
yet it's a different kind
of IRC where the people
that you're talking to, you're
not actually listening to them.
You're not following because there
isn't reciprocity with following which
there is on IRC. Well,
this is like me not
listening to you now because
I'm Twittering. Twitter is the
downfall of discourse. And I'm
trying to remember how to
feel. I'm doing this with
the one hand though. Discourse
period, quote at Spolsky. And
I spoke this course. Nope.
I think I just made
you Spolsky enter. There we
go. Now I feel complete.
I put that out there.
Okay. There's a funny Twitter.
Now. The great thing is
that I never, I didn't
have to back that up.
You don't, you don't have
to back that up. I
don't have to back that
up. People can argue with
us, but that's not real.
And there's no proof that
you even said it. Right.
Just because I Twittered that
doesn't mean it really happened.
Oh, cool. Well, Joel, thanks
so much for sitting down
with me today and talk
to her. I appreciate it.
It's great to have a
tour of the place. Yeah,
hopefully I get to come
and hang out with you
again. Next time I'm in
New York. Cool. That'll be awesome.
Thanks for having me on.
All right. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.